Q1) What is HTTP $

Ans) HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. It is a type of connection such that once the user and the server agree to handshake(establish connection), Data is transfered  between the server and the client and the connection is closed automatically. It is not desirable as every time any changes are made in the server side, the entire page has to be reloaded to show the changes. This makes the loading of websites slow and costly. Whenever we send the HTTP request we send over a header file to the server that gives us back a HTML (or anything) in response to be displayed.

Types of Commands:
1) Get/Put/Delete

What are Header file $
Ans) Header Files are details sent to the server telling it all the things it wants(Eg:Get Put or Delete request)

What is TCP and UDP $
Ans) These are Transmission control protocols that govern how packets are transfered over the internet. TCP refers to Transmission control Protocol. TCP makes sure that all the packets are sent and recieved in order.(is more reliable)

UDP stands for User Datagram Protocol It doesnt make sure that the packets reach in order. It allows the lose of a packet or two(Prioterizes speed and efficiency)

Q2) What are WebSockets and why do we need them $

Ans) WebSocket is a computer communications protocol, providing full-duplex(Allowing Data transfers drom both sides) communication channels over a single TCP connection. Initially an HTTP request is made. If the connection request gets accepted, then the client andthe server can agree to upgrade rheir connection to Web Sockets. Using web sockets enables us to establish a continuous connection with the server allowing us to see real time canges on the website withut needing to reload it

Q3) What is AJAX(Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) $
Ans) It is a web development technique in which a browser makes a request to the server(Twitter sends AJAX reuest to their server every few seconds) to see if there are any new data available and then it updates the page without having to reload the entire page Ajax connection is closed after one request response cycle whereas WebSocket have continuous bi-directional connection open

It's asynchronous in that it doesn't lock up the browser. If you fire an Ajax request, the user can still work while the request is waiting for a response. When the server returns the response, a callback runs to handle it.

You can make the XMLHttpRequest synchronous if you want, and if you do, the browser locks up while the request is outstanding (so most of the time this is inappropriate)


Q4) What is long  polling and polling $
Ans) HTTP Long Polling is a technique used to push information to a client as soon as possible on the server. As a result, the server does not have to wait for the client to send a request. In simple words the connection is kept open until new data is made available on the server and it is sent to the client. Polling refers to the technique of sending connection requests every X amount of seconds

Q5) WHat is Server Side Event $
Ans)

Q6) What is MVT $
Ans) Django uses Model View Template. That is when a client makes a request to an URL it goes to the URL.py and from that it gets the routing. After that it goes to the views. Views serves as connection between Model and Template. Model bascically connects database with Django and Template contains the the front end JavaScript and HTML. Views merges the data from Model and the HTML and CSS from the Template to display the final web page
What is DOM $
Ans) DOM stands for Document Object Model. Document represents the file , O stands for Object or we can say the HTML tags(also called the child node) and M stands Model that is the tree structure linking te parent with the child. DOM is an API (Application programming interface)that creates a tree linking the parent nodes with all its cildren. It can then be easily used by appliations to edit documents
It is used for HTML and XML. All web browsers use DOM to make their websites accessible by JavaScript

